# SymPy Bot

This is a GitHub bot for SymPy. It runs on Heroku and uses the
[@sympy-bot](https://github.com/sympy-bot) GitHub user.

The bot makes sure that every pull request to SymPy has a release notes entry
in the pull request description. It then automatically adds these notes to the
[release notes](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/wiki/Release-Notes) on the wiki
when the pull request is merged.

See [the guide on the SymPy
wiki](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/wiki/Writing-Release-Notes) on how to
write release notes.

The bot may also do other things in the future. If you have any suggestions or
have found any bugs, please open an
[issue](https://github.com/sympy/sympy-bot/issues). Pull requests are welcome
too.

## Setting up the bot

[This tutorial](https://github-bot-tutorial.readthedocs.io/en/latest) is very
good on how to set up Heroku and write GitHub bots. This bot is based on it.

The bot is tied to Heroku, so any push to this repo is automatically deployed
there (it is currently configured to not deploy until the
[Travis](https://travis-ci.org/sympy/sympy-bot) tests pass). The Heroku
dashboard is at https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/sympy-bot

If the bot stops working, look at the logs with

    heroku logs -a sympy-bot

(you need to install the `heroku` [command line
tools](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli) and have access to
the sympy-bot Heroku app). You can also see the logs on
[Heroku](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/sympy-bot/logs).

Next, you need to set up the bot on GitHub. To do so, follow these steps:

1. Go to the webhooks settings (for instance, at
   https://github.com/sympy/sympy/settings/hooks), and create a new webhook.

   - Set the payload URL to the Heroku app URL (for instance,
     https://sympy-bot.herokuapp.com/)
   - Set the content type to `application/json`
   - Generate a random password for the secret. I used the keychain app on my
     Mac to generate a 20 character password with random characters. Save this
     secret, as you will need to enter it in Heroku as well.
   - Under "Which events would you like to trigger this webhook?" select "Let
     me select individual events.". Then make sure only **Pull requests** is
     checked.
   - Make sure **Active** is checked

2. Go to Heroku and under the settings UI (e.g.,
   https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/sympy-bot/settings), create two config
   variables:

   - `GH_SECRET`: set this to the secret you created in step 1 above
   - `GH_AUTH`: set this to the personal access token for the `sympy-bot`
     user. If you don't have this or need to regenerate it, login as the bot
     user and go to the personal access token settings (at
     https://github.com/settings/tokens), and create a new token. **VERY
     IMPORTANT:** Give the token `public_repo` access only.

3. Give the `sympy-bot` user push access to the repo. This is required for the
   bot to set commit statuses and to push to the wiki. If you know how to
   allow it to do this without giving it as much access, please let me know. I
   have tried playing with using reviews instead of statuses, but I couldn't
   get it to work.

4. Run

       heroku labs:enable runtime-dyno-metadata -a sympy-bot

   to enable the bot version environment variable (run this if the version is
   "version not found!").

## Testing

There is a testing deploy set up at
https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/sympy-bot-testing. Currently, it is
configured to run on https://github.com/asmeurer/GitHub-Issues-Test.

To test, push to a separate branch (`master` has branch protection) on this
repo (you can also set up a separate testing deploy for your fork if you
want). Then go to
https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/sympy-bot-testing/deploy/github and manually
deploy the branch. You can also enable automatic deployments for the branch if
you want to do many tests against it.

### Wiki Push Test
On Travis, there is a test that the wiki updates properly, which tests against
https://github.com/sympy/sympy-bot/wiki/Release-Notes-Tests. This requires a
personal access token to be installed on Travis.

This token is currently given on the @sympy-bot GitHub user. To regenerate it,
login as @sympy-bot, and go to https://github.com/settings/tokens/. Create a
new token, checking only the `public_repo` box. Be sure to indicate in the
description that the token is for Travis testing, and be sure to revoke any
old tokens. The @sympy-bot user needs push access to this repo for the test to
work. Then go to https://travis-ci.org/sympy/sympy-bot/settings and add the
token as an environment variable for `TESTING_TOKEN`. **Make sure to set the
variable as not visible in the build log.** The environment variable should
show up as a lock after it has been added.

The test will only be run on Travis builds on branches pushed to this repo (it
won't run on branches pushed to forks). Thus, if you make any changes to this
code, someone with push access will need to push your branch up to the main
repo in order for it to be tested.

### Debugging Webhooks

To debug webhooks, you can go to the webhooks settings for the repo the bot is
set up on (e.g., https://github.com/sympy/sympy/settings/hooks), and click the
webhook for https://sympy-bot.herokuapp.com/. This will show you all recent
webhooks that were delivered, with the exact JSON that was delivered as well
as the headers and the response. Each webhook has a corresponding UUID (the
delivery id), which is printed by the bot in the logs when it receives it.

## Rate Limits

GitHub has a rate limit of 5000 requests per hour. A single bot action may
result in multiple API requests. You can see the current rate limit and when
it resets at https://sympy-bot.herokuapp.com/. If the bot detects that its
rate limits are getting very low, it will post a warning comment on a pull
request. Right now, the bot doesn't use the API very much, so we never get
near the rate limits, unless someone were to attempt to spam it. However, in
the future, this could become an issue if the bot is made to do more stuff.
